# PLCOpen-XML-to-Text-Parser
PLCOpen files are often available as exports.  This script will convert the XML format to a more readable text for which can be used for code comparison tools

Usage:   parse.py inputfile.xml  (note current version requires you replace the first line <project .... > with <project>

From the website, http://www.plcopen.org/pages/tc6_xml/xml_intro/index.htm
PLCopen first published the XML schema and documentation in June 2005 as version 1.01. The PLCopen specification is implemented by suppliers in Japan and Germany.
With a new initiative called AutomationML we came to a new phase. The companies Daimler, ABB, KUKA, Rockwell, Siemens, netAllied and Zühlke together with the University of Karlsruhe and the University of Magdeburg jointly defined and standardized the Automation Markup Language as an intermediate format for the Digital Factory. For more information check www.automationML.org. 
One of the formats that was accepted in this group is PLCopen XML for the sequencing. In order to optimize this interface additional changes to the specification were proposed. These proposals resulted in a new release of the PLCopen XML schema, version 2.0, in December 2008. This schema also includes previous feedback on this schema from other parties involved. With this release an optimization between the simulation and realization is created, creating more efficiency in automation. 

Version 2.01 of the PLCopen specification (published in May 2009) includes general feedback as well as the requirements for the format of the sequencing as output of their Automation Markup Language (AutomationML™) as an intermediate format for the Digital Factory. In connection with AutomationML this exchange was also integrated in the engineering work flows and there it has priority in the exchange of logic information.

In 2014 we entered a new phase for this document. Through the German DKE, PLCopen handed over its intellectual property rights on the schema, specification and documentation to IEC. Based on this a New Work Item Proposal (NWIP) was started in January 2014. 
After successful consultations the Task Force 10 in the IEC TC65/SC65B/WG7 was started with a focus to publish the PLCopen XML specification as IEC 61131-10. This working group consists of representation from Austria, France, Japan, Germany, the Netherlands and China. Germany has a strong representation with companies like Phoenix Contact Sofware, 3S-Smart Software Solutions and Siemens. The Task Force 10 had their kick-off meeting at DKE in Germany in October 2014. After extensive discussion on the comments of the national committees it was decided to first adjust the PLCopen XML schema to the 2nd edition of IEC 61131-3 and subsequently change into the 3rd edition. Thus the PLCopen specification will become an integral part of the IEC 61131 specifications. The international standard IEC 61131-10 is expected to be published in 2018. PLCopen will keep its intellectual property rights on the specification, the documentation, and the schema, for which it provides easy on-line access via this website.
